New DNS Monitoring docs (#8177)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/network_performance_monitoring/dns_monitoring.md

---
title: DNS Monitoring
kind: documentation
description: Diagnose and debug DNS server issues  
aliases:
    - /network_performance_monitoring/network_table
further_reading:
    - link: 'https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/network-performance-monitoring'
      tag: 'Blog'
      text: 'Network Performance Monitoring'
    - link: 'https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/monitor-coredns-with-datadog/'
      tag: 'Blog'
      text: 'Monitor CoreDNS with Datadog'
    - link: '/network_performance_monitoring/network_page'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Explore network data between each source and destination.'
    - link: 'https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/dns-resolution-datadog/'
      tag: 'Blog'
      text: 'Use DNS resolution to monitor cloud and external endpoints'
---

{{< img src="network_performance_monitoring/dns_default.png" alt="DNS Monitoring" >}}

DNS Monitoring provides an overview of DNS server performance to help you identify server-side and client-side DNS issues. By collecting and displaying flow-level DNS metrics, this page can be used to identify:

> * Which pods or services are making DNS requests, and to which servers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The pods or services making DNS requests and the servers receiving those requests.
```

> * Which endpoints are making the most requests, or making requests at the highest rate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The endpoints making the most requests or making requests at the highest rate.
```

> * When a DNS server’s response time to requests has gradually or suddenly increased

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If a DNS server’s response time to requests has gradually or suddenly increased.
```

> * Which DNS servers have a high error rate, and what kind of errors they they are emitting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The DNS servers with a high error rate and the type of errors being emitted.
```

## Setup

> DNS Monitoring metrics are collected automatically by the system probe. Once installed, a ‘DNS’ tab will be accessible in the Network Performance Monitoring product by default - no extra steps are necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DNS Monitoring metrics are collected automatically by the system probe. Once installed, a ‘DNS’ tab is accessible in the Network Performance Monitoring product by default - no extra steps are necessary.
```

## Queries

> You can use the source and destination search bars at the top of the page to query for dependencies between a client (_source_), which makes the DNS request, and a DNS server (_destination_), which responds to the DNS request. The destination port is automatically scoped to DNS port 53 so that all resulting dependencies match this (client → DNS server) format. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the source and destination search bars at the top of the page to query for dependencies between a client (_source_), which makes the DNS request, and a DNS server (_destination_), which responds to the DNS request. The destination port is automatically scoped to DNS port 53 so that all resulting dependencies match this (client → DNS server) format. 
```

To refine your search to a particular client, aggregate and filter DNS traffic using tags in the source search bar. In the default view, the source is aggregated by the `service` tag. Accordingly, each row in the table represents a service that is making DNS requests to some DNS server. 

{{< img src="network_performance_monitoring/dns_default.png" alt="DNS Monitoring default view"  style="width:100%;">}}

> To refine your search to a particular DNS server, filter the destination search bar using tags. To configure your destination display, select one of the following options from the ‘Group by’ dropdown menu:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To refine your search to a particular DNS server, filter the destination search bar using tags. To configure your destination display, select one of the following options from the **Group by** dropdown menu:
```

> * `dns_server`: The server receiving DNS requests. This tag has the same value as pod_name or task_name, or host_name if the former tags are not available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `dns_server`: The server receiving DNS requests. This tag has the same value as `pod_name` or `task_name`. If those tags are not available, `host_name` is used.
```

* `host`: The host name of the DNS server.
* `service`: The service running on the DNS server.
* `IP`: The IP of the DNS server.

This example shows all flows from pods in the production environment’s availability zone to hosts receiving DNS requests:

{{< img src="network_performance_monitoring/dns_query_screenshot.png" alt="Query of pods making requests to multiple DNS servers"  style="width:100%;">}}

## Metrics

Your DNS metrics are displayed through the graphs and the associated table. 

**Note:** The default collection interval is five minutes and retention is seven days.

> The following DNS metrics are available:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The following DNS metrics are available:
```

| Metric                   | Description                                                                                                             |
|--------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | **DNS Requests**         | The number of DNS requests made from the source                                                                         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **DNS requests**         | The number of DNS requests made from the source.                                                                         |
```

> | **DNS Requests/ Second** | The rate of DNS requests made by the source                                                                             |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **DNS requests / second** | The rate of DNS requests made by the source.                                                                             |
```

> | **DNS Response Time**    | The average response time of the DNS server to a request from the source                                                |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **DNS response time**    | The average response time of the DNS server to a request from the source.                                                |
```

> | **Timeouts**             | The number of timed out DNS requests from the source, displayed as a percentage of all DNS responses                    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Timeouts**             | The number of timed out DNS requests from the source (displayed as a percentage of all DNS responses).                    |
```

> | **Errors**               | The number of requests from the source that generated DNS error codes, displayed as a percentage of all DNS responses   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Errors**               | The number of requests from the source that generated DNS error codes (displayed as a percentage of all DNS responses).   |
```

> | **Failures**             | The total number of timeouts and errors in DNS requests from the source, displayed as a percentage of all DNS responses |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Failures**             | The total number of timeouts and errors in DNS requests from the source (displayed as a percentage of all DNS responses). |
```

## Table

The network table breaks down the above metrics by each _source_ and _destination_ dependency defined by your query.

> You can configure the columns in your table using the `Customize` button at the top right of the table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure the columns in your table using the **Customize** button at the top right of the table.
```

> Narrow down the traffic in your view with the `Filter Traffic` [options][1].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Narrow down the traffic in your view with the **Filter Traffic** [options][1].
```

## Sidepanel

> The sidepanel provides contextual telemetry to help you quickly debug DNS server dependencies. Use the Flows, Logs, Traces, and Processes tabs to determine whether a DNS server’s high number of incoming requests, response time, or failure rate is due to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sidepanel provides contextual telemetry to help you quickly debug DNS server dependencies. Use the Flows, Logs, Traces, and Processes tabs to determine whether a DNS server’s high number of incoming requests, response time, or failure rate is due to:

```

> * Heavy processes consuming the resources of its underlying infrastructure 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Heavy processes consuming the resources of the underlying infrastructure
```

> * Application errors in code on the client side 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Application errors in the code on the client side
```
